okay so this is a what's new in gensokyo
tests can it just a little overview of
where at where you've been and where
we're going
it's me very exciting so this is me I'm
Alex platini's I am taking brain on most
Internet's you can find me on Twitter
and github and all that kind of stuff I
work for protocol dubs and I am the lead
maintainer on just like EFS so what is
Chasse make it fast in case you don't
know it's an implementation of AI
professor and all the supporting
protocols completely ruin in JavaScript
most Orion in JavaScript there is some
wasn't in there why not
yeah I guess about 5,000 own leads a
week and it runs in places most of the
places that Jerris runs so in the
browser which is amazing no electron and
the typical focus has been on places
that God gave us can't that's why we're
so keen on improving the browser support
hello loads of people building really
cool stuff on top of Jaso PFS of course
notably Microsoft who launched ion which
we've talked about a little bit and
you'll hear loads more from Daniel later
on and so what we've been doing what
would be happy we see we've been trying
to ship things so if you look at the
kind of the releases that we do we've
done ten releases and the last twelve
months they've been quite a few point
releases in between this bug fixes and
that kind of thing but these are the
ones that deliver new functionality as
you can see we're trying to trying to
get the number of days between releases
down so that we try to avoid big bang
releases and do sort of a release early
release often kind of approach and small
digestible chunks because nobody likes
when you upgrade something and
everything explodes then a few little
things which play so what if you
actually shipped I mean we should layers
of stuff I'm gonna go through all these
lists because there's too much but yeah
so you can see like going back through
may I
things UNICEF SP 1.5 if that was
enormous Maison carrée balls that was
enormous is a really good fun stuff so a
portable request that was something that
landed recently that means that you can
now time out requests and I bought
things so like if things go into your
bits or one this then Accenture and you
cancel the request and they get removed
because some of the big features the ace
English for refactor so we have this we
had this API that used pool streams and
it was it worked and it was great it was
quite hard to use for beginners because
pushes on a native feature of JavaScript
so you have to learn the API of the of a
whole ecosystem of modules and I just
made life quite complicated in terms of
debugging because the stack traces
didn't really have all that stuff there
was very much there was very useful and
everything it was basically a grand re
right so you know on the ape on the
surface it looks like just a few changes
but actually all the way down it's right
to the networking stack to a very basis
like their p2p and now like the amount
of code that we managed to delete by
doing this is incredible so it's much
more than an easier to debug now unix
the recipe 1.5 is a feature that we
shipped this adds metadata to unix FS
files so initially it's just the foil
mode and the modification time which
means that you could you could mount
this as like your MF s or something you
could mount it under fuse and have the
have a native place within ifs just for
any file modifications executable and
you know readable writable no kind of
thing users familiar tools just touch
and chmod
to make these changes to the files
keeping it small we're trying to we're
trying to make it small like I say we we
run in the browser so we're very
sensitive to the bundle size
the barman size is quite big so over
time you can see we've not really it's
about the same size as it was we had
this this bump in the middle which is a
bit of is actually just a Miss
configuration but we kind of went up and
then we go down and we're always trying
to to make it smaller because it's too
big it's way too big
why is it so big this is why I say big
if you look on the right this sauce
that's kind of that's actually jeaious
ipfs it's actually a tiny tiny section
of the bundle most of it is things like
note forge for doing which facing me
parties for a little p2p for doing all
of the encryption when you're sending
stuff backwards and forwards on the
network I mean you see there's there's a
few implementations of it's a big number
and bnj yeah so they basically very
similar things and there's also JSP n in
node forge so trying to target these
kind of things for a mute for removal
and refactoring would be great and so
like javascript now has big numbers
right we can actually use big numbers
basically if um if you look at the
documentation for this the first thing
it says pretty much is not suitable for
use in cryptography hahaha
why why why so we still need some kind
of way of doing like handling numbers
that are bigger than the the size that
JavaScript can address which is super
tedious peer so we're forever trying to
remove dependencies and make these
things smaller because because it's
basically this the node modules before
that is that one of the heaviest objects
in the known universe
well sweet Anya we're trying to make it
fast then quite a lot of work trying to
improve the performance of jairus ipfs
because because jess is slow right
I mean thankfully most of the things
that we do are actually network bound
and so the the slow thing the thing that
we can't we chose faster out really is
doing CPU bumpers and but we can make
other things faster so
he compared the transfer speeds between
jsr PFS 38 and 46 the 46 was released in
last week 38 was a year ago
36 was a year ago I don't have standards
that you are SATs of 38 and between 38
and 46 we've seen a 600 percent speed
increase depending on the size of the
file and basically the the bigger the
phone gets the bigger the income scale
which is incredible and we're pretty
happy with that and the reason there's a
few a few reasons why this has got
faster one is we've adopted bits for 1.2
which allows you to prioritize sending
blocks to other peers and among other
improvements but we've also spent time
just optimizing the existing
implementation so we just identified
some bottlenecks and remove them and
we've seen an enormous speed up and this
we're just getting started just getting
started and other things we've been
working on is the time it takes to
import files so if I run this benchmark
earlier today adding a directory of two
point three four gigabytes of files
between two hundred points and 200
megabytes
okay sorry invest 36 verses 46 there was
a 22% speed increase which is quite
quite impressive and also also if you
look it's a little bit faster than go
ipfs which is fantastic it's most of e
that's me faster it's something so where
we going next what's next so next up
we've got a watch group support like
this appearance the number one requested
feature which there are so many types
clip shops out there who really really
want to use typescript and we're so
we're adding air the edge of the library
so we're not because of like the kind of
the tourism that is that every every
type of developer news JavaScript but
not a JavaScript developer knows
typescript so we don't necessarily want
to convert the whole library to tighter
grip because like it lowers it makes
this the pool of potential contributors
smaller raises the pirate of entry so
what we're doing is we're going to
typescript definitions of all
external interfaces so the people coding
against oSIP FS can use it as if it were
a native typescript project and we're
hoping repeats getting that out what's
going to come up this quarter but I
think it slipped a little bit but it's
definitely very high on the priority
list also react native support we really
want to get chase our vests running
react native so they can it's a it's a
very commonly requested feature we want
to be able to like this is really
interesting ones are sharing a running
though between single origin browser
tabs if you have a website and it's
using json AFS and you open a new tab at
the moment it has to spin up a new JSON
if first load which will have you know
possibly has the same parity and you
know you have to make it there's network
connections again and it's using the
same storage and this is kind of bad so
what we want to do is move and I could
first node into a shared worker or just
allow the website to deploy in a shared
worker and then you will be able to
access the shared worker from all the
different types which will reduce the
amount of like CPU using a network
resource and that kind of thing then
also they could not actually be on the
show worker it could be actually using a
proposed desktop and if you if you
established that kind of communication
channel between your web app running in
one or more terms and a central node on
your machine then it makes actually then
adopting those changes much easier we're
gonna refer to the pinning system
because it's it works but it's quite
slow and the performance gets worse over
time so we've got some plans to move all
the pins into the data store and our
early benchmarking has shown some very
promising numbers which will bring that
file import time down even further which
would be amazingly good DHT we'd love to
have a DHT at the moment the gorilla
this team are massively refactoring
their DHT
and at some point liver will stabilize
and there will be a specification
written and then we will implement that
specification in JavaScript and they're
kind of like the last
the last missing bit of functionality
really to be a fully fledged participant
on the oculus network I guess it's never
really been a proper priority before
because because I've focused on running
in the browser most browsers nodes are
not diable so there's no point saying to
the DA there's no point advertising the
providing of C IDs on the HT if no one
can connect you so it's never gonna been
a high priority but more and more people
are using it in node at that point
becomes very important to have an
implementation that is stable and free
featured onwards we have a road map so
if you follow the euro - it's one that
I'm going to read it out because bf if
you visit the road map you can see
what's been slated to appear in upcoming
releases and you can see like where you
can help which this leads me on to say
thank you to all our contributors so
here's a list of all the people who have
contributed to there's just an orifice
the J's I'll give it me PO there are
plenty more across the ecosystem and
it's amazing so thank you all very much
you can make that project isn't it
that's me her question awesome thank you
very much for the update Alex just
quickly looking through here we've got a
couple questions for JSF BFS what do you
see is the relationship between JSI PFS
and rust IBM as given that rust can
produce web assembly and run in a
browser well I mean is great that
there's more implementations of like FS
out there I think you know I think each
implementation is can I do things that
make sense to the platform that it
targets so you may see like an idiomatic
API use from Ross oh yes where is the
Jess one will always try to be the
closest to you know what you would
expect as a JavaScript developer but I
mean it's great great hassle and next
question for everyone who's using jess
ipfs at the moment what's the best
recommended complete typescript
effort to use right now until official
TS support is launched so I think
definitely type has a bunch of
definitions for the interfaces already I
mean I think that's one that's what you
were doing great and have you given some
thought about doing remote requests like
proxy requests to be a running desktop
ipfs yes yeah I mean I mentioned it in
the toaster if we define these kind of
interfaces between the running code and
like the API that's expected on the
remote the remote node becomes much
easier to then adopt those kind of
things yeah it's definitely something
that we're interested in looking at so
propose things on the repo great all
right I think that's it for questions
there's one from Stefan but I'm gonna
leave that one for a Dean in the Go ipfs
talk I'm talking about new metrics but
thank you very much Alex for coming and
talk to us and if you have any more
questions for Alex feel free to put them
in the chat or in the QA
and we can answer those ad hoc